Essay Title: My Sister Inspires Me
Student Name: [Student name not provided]
Performance Level: Developing / ELL / Vision Impaired
Language Context: Spanish-speaking, legally blind, English learner

Full Essay:
My sister inspires me because she was an amazing person for me and my family. She was one of those people that had a caring and kind soul.  
She always had a smile that no one could take from her she was brave, hopeful, and grateful.

Even with what she had she always had a positive mindset that she was going to get better. But nothing is what you think it is going to be you never know what might happen or when it is going to happen so always love your family before anything else and anyone else.

She was brave by never giving up. She had this mindset that she was not going to let anything get to her and. We always had to be brave for her and also she did not care what other people had to say. About her she always was that person that if they had something bad to say against her she always had a way to not let people get to her and what they had to say about her. Although she was sick she always had a smile even though she knew that everything was not okay. Throughout her journey since we found out that she had cancer my parents and her always had to go back and forth to the hospital and home. That was her journey when everything started.

My parents and family members were all hopeful that she was going to bet cancer. But you never know what might happen and also our family members were very hopeful but they were always supportive throughout the whole journey and they were always there in the good and the bad, always giving us advice. We should always be positive and know that it is God's will if she is going to live or not but what I learned from this experience is that God is the only one who gives you your life and never take anything for granted. Always enjoy your life as you can because you never know when it is going to be your last breath.

I was grateful to have my sister for the longest I could but one thing that I could have changed was to love her and appreciate her. In all I could but for me knowing that if she could not resist anymore then me knowing that she is going to a better place. And I know she is going to be better their and she is not going to suffer but I am so grateful that all my family members were there to support us. They were there when we had to say goodbye to her but our family was their to comfort us and to let us know that she was going to a better place then suffer for the rest of her life. But this is the hardest experience I have ever had to experience but I know now that I should be grateful for my family and for what I have in this world.

My sister inspires me because she was an amazing sister and she was brave throughout her journey. She also was really hopeful in the most possible way. And also she was a grateful person. She always had a thing that she never asked for anything. But when they gave her something or buyed her anything she always appreciated everything. But she was a fun and happy person she always had a smile on her face even though we were going through ruff moments. She was never a negative person, she was a positive person and liked adventures. But this is the person who inspires me the most.

Dr. A's Feedback:

Hook:
Wow — I want to know more about your inspiring sister! Good job.

Thesis:
You included your reasons: brave, hopeful, and grateful. Nice work! Watch for punctuation and run-on sentences. This one would be stronger if broken into two separate sentences or connected with a FANBOY (for, and, nor, but, or, yet, so).

Body Paragraph 1:
This is a beautiful statement about your sister. It’s personal and emotional. I would suggest moving this sentence (“Even with what she had she always had a positive mindset...”) to the conclusion so it can leave a lasting impression.

Body Paragraph 2:
What a beautiful soul. You gave specific examples of bravery. Try breaking up your longer ideas into shorter sentences. That will make it easier for others to read and understand. Great job showing what her journey looked like.

Body Paragraph 3:
This paragraph is so touching. You show how your family stayed hopeful, even though it was hard. Great job using personal examples. One quick tip — the word “bet” should be “beat” (as in “beat cancer”). Also: “their” should be “there.” This will improve clarity.

Body Paragraph 4:
Powerful paragraph. You expressed grief and gratitude in the same moment — that’s not easy to do. I love how you wrote “she is still going to a better place.” Be careful with sentence structure; try readi
